[static crackling on comms]
[pilot]
Sojourner. come in. Do you copy?
[Walt]
Kosmos-1. we read you.
[pilot]
We are… orbital approach to Titan.
But we have a serious situation.
We are in trouble.
[Walt] Calm down. Kosmos.
Please advise your situation.
[pilot] Our burn is in progress.
but we're not decelerating enough.
We're still going too fast
to enter Titan orbit.
Okay. uh. maybe… I don't know.
Uh… Shut down the helicon coolant loop?
Overcrank your engine.
It'll burn out pretty quick.
but it could at least keep you safe.
[pilot] No time to rig the bypass.
We're already at entering interface.
- We need to decelerate.
- [sighs] What's going on?
Problem on Kosmos-1.
They're attempting their aerobrake
maneuver to enter Titan's orbit…
But it sounds like
they're going in way too shallow.
[pilot] Our engines are working fine.
But I don't know.
- It doesn't make any sense.
- Aerobraking isn't going up enough.
All the calcs show their trajectory
was bang on.
- [Walt] Enough prop to do another burn?
- [Oleg] I hope so.
- [pilot] Negative. barely have…
- We're on the same trajectory.
…any propellant left.
- [Walt] Uh. stand by. Kosmos-1.
- [pilot] Copy.
- [Stu] Jesus.
- Standing by.
If they don't reduce their speed.
they're gonna skip right off
of Titan's atmosphere.
And get pulled into Saturn's gravity well.
The radiation alone will kill them.
Kosmos-1. Sojourner. Do you read me?
They should be slowing down.
Maybe they can dive deeper down
into Titan's atmosphere.
Get more drag to help slow them down.
Kosmos-1. Sojourner.
Try a nose-high dive.
It'll give you more drag.
- [pilot] Copy. Executing dive now.
- Copy that. Standing by.
Come on.
Kosmos?
[static crackling]
[pilot] It didn't work.
And we have no more prop left.
[sighs] Can you…
Can you use your maneuvering thrusters
to get you in-into Saturn's orbit?
Negative. Sojourner.
[static crackles]
We have missed Titan.
We are being pulled into Saturn.
[static crackling]
[somber music playing]
Will you please tell our colleagues
that we tried?
And we love our families very much.
Of-Of course. We'll tell them. Kosmos-1.
I promise you.
And we'll stay right here
on the radio with you.
All the way.
We're with you.
Kosmos?
[static crackling]
Did you copy that?
[static crackling continues]
[Walt] Kosmos-1. can you hear us?
Kosmos-1?
[theme song playing]
[Lily] I don't know how my dad
has put up with him all these years.
- [Alex] Mm-hmm.
- You know.
I'm not saying he's a dick.
but he's such a dick.
Yeah.
Like. all I did was ask
for a short ration of vodka.
and he looked at me like I had cursed
in church.
[sighs]
[Russian accent] "You know. you don't
like rations. then talk to your father."
[normal voice] Bueller?
Bueller?
- Hmm?
- Hello?
- Sorry. Um…
- Are you okay?
Yeah. Yes. Sorry. I just. uh…
I'm-I'm still just kinda thinking about
what happened with that Kuragin ship.
Hey.
Look. she's gonna be fine.
Your mom's gonna be fine. Right?
She has. like.
two whole planets' worth of scientists
trying to figure out how
to land on Titan. right?
Yeah. Yes.
Uh. I-I guess you're right.
And. oh. my God. that Rosales lady?
She would literally beat Saturn to death…
- [chuckles]
- …if it tried any shit.
It's. uh. more impressionistic.
like Antonioni.
I'll show you when I'm finished.
but you have to be honest.
Good morning.
[Lily] Hi. Lee.
Less talk.
more work.
- Yes. sir. Yes. sir.
- [Lily] On it.
I think he secretly hates me.
It is the only explanation
why he's tormenting me.
Guess who's on the fertilizer duty list
every night this week? Again.
- You're kidding me.
- Both of us.
Are you serious? That's such bullshit.
What? What was… What wa…
What was that? What was that?
Hmm? Nothing. just you never seem
to get fertilizer duty.
Yeah. how is it he's sitting and typing
and we're literally shoveling shit
every night?
I guess my hands… [stammers]
…I guess they're just too delicate
to be sullied with manure like yours.
- [Auggie groans]
- [Gulsora] Yeah. [chuckles]
Your present is getting smaller
by the minute.
[both chuckle]
Hey. Be cool.
She told me what your present
is going to be on your big night.
You know.
you're lucky you're getting anything
because I have no time with all
of the extra work that I've had to do.
I mean. I… I'd happily. uh. help
with-with anything you have.
- Just… after I'm finished. Yeah.
- Yeah?
- I bet you would.
- I would love to.
[giggles] Yeah. you love
the smell of fertilizer.
- I love it.
- Yeah. I know that about you.
- I love it so much.
- Yeah?
I mean.
anything would smell so good on you.
- Yeah? [laughs] Thank you.
- Yeah. [chuckles]
[Gulsora] Ugh. I don't want
to see this. Gross.
Move.
The M-6 has grown suspicious
that we are resupplying you.
And ISN cannot take the risk
of war breaking out back home.
So I've been ordered
to pause our aid to you.
It pains me to deliver this news.
The courage you have shown
these past six months has been inspiring.
ISN and the Chinese government
continue to have nothing
but good feelings
and sympathy towards you.
your people and the noble struggle
in which you are engaged.
[line disconnects]
[Mahmoud] Cowards.
If our ISN food resupply line is
now cut off.
our situation is very difficult.
We have been supplementing ISN supplies
with food stores from Kuznetsov Station.
And. uh. we're counting on harvests
from our ag dome. but those crops?
- Months away.
- Christ.
How are we at this point?
We'll figure it out. Fumiko.
You gotta understand they're
in pain too. So it's who blinks first.
If we have to dip
into our emergency rations...
We don't even have those rations anymore.
With all the incidents that have occurred.
Incidents my ass. It's sabotage.
Those peckers are trying
to cut our legs off.
Yeah. former Sheriff Palmer
remains elusive.
The hidden access tunnels
that we found last month...
You mean the ones Dev fucking Ayesa
built without telling anyone?
Yeah.
Now they're all holed up
in that fortress with him
and there's nothing we can do about it.
I still cannot believe
Dev is helping them.
Oh. I can.
He's always been in it for himself.
They're not gonna stop.
So we have to be more vigilant.
Lee.
how long can we last
with the food we have left?
Uh. with all the rations that we have
and. uh. what else we have on hand. uh.
two months.
So that's it? Two months?
We could cut back rations even further.
The human body can survive on minimal food
for a surprisingly long amount of time.
We proved this when we first arrived
on this planet almost 20 years ago.
I'm not sure we have
a population ready and willing
to make that kind of sacrifice. Yeah.
"We. the voiceless and powerless people
of Happy Valley.
demand that we be allowed
to return to Earth
on the next available transport ship."
I thought you should see this.
200 people have signed a petition asking
to be sent back to Earth.
Good. Get 'em out of here.
They shouldn't be a part of this anyway.
Leaves more food for the rest of us.
And we get rid of people we can't trust.
Is it possible?
To send back to Earth
those who want to go?
Less mouths to feed.
Less pressure on the food supply line.
Not to mention forcing
those who want to go to stay
makes it seem as if they
are being held captive.
- That's ridiculous.
- Look at the sign. It's how they feel.
This isn't about feelings.
Nobody is being held captive.
Well. actually the Governor.
the Kuragin liaison…
- That is a totally...
- …and their entire entourage…
How can you make that comparison?
…are being held captive as we speak.
- All right!
- [Celia clears throat]
Can we even send
these people back to Earth?
Do we have a ship?
That's a MOCC question.
which means it's
an Aleida Rosales question.
Unfortunately.
Great. So…
who would like to talk to her?
Why's it always me?
You are the only one she does not hate.
[chuckles]
The hostage crisis is entering
its sixth month.
and both sides remain immovable.
With the M-6 only maintaining control over
a small portion of the Mars base.
President Bragg continues to vow
he will not negotiate with terrorists.
As the dramatic standoff over M-6 plans
to automate Mars drags on
with no end in sight.
Shipments of iridium
to Earth have completely ceased.
as have all supply shipments
to Happy Valley base. causing massive…
The SDM Council.
named for the Sons & Daughters of Mars.
which purports to speak for the radicals
who seized control of the base
has released another statement.
We remain in control
of Happy Valley including Mission Control.
as well as the Phoenix Spaceport
and all asteroid mining operations
on Kuznetsov Station.
Far from backing down.
they are now threatening
to declare Martian independence
should their. quote.
"legitimate and just demands" not be met.
[newsreader] While most oppose the actions
of the radicals. some pro-Mars protests
have sprung up across the United States.
the Soviet Union and Europe.
Soviet President Fyodor Korzhenko
announced the protesters as unsupportive.
The Governor of Mars. Lenya Polivanov.
a Korzhenko acolyte.
has been held hostage
since the beginning of the crisis.
In the United States. President Bragg
has maintained his hard-line stance
when it comes
to the Sons and Daughters of Mars.
His administration has ensured the M-6
continues its embargo of the red planet.
withholding vital resource shipments
that the colony has depended on
- for its survival in the past.
- [knocks on door]
All right. Time for exercise. Let's go.
[newsreader] The standoff
has also complicated the response
to the tragic failure of Kosmos-1
Mission to Titan.
which was crewed
by a private Soviet company.
Korzhenko issued a statement
saying. quote. "We have lost five heroes."
There will be time later
to assess the impact…
[suspenseful music playing]
[in Russian] I must speak with you.
I have received information from Earth.
How did you manage this?
Giving prisoners salt and pepper shakers…
- They don't know how to run a jail.
- [chuckles]
And what is this information?
It's not good. I'm afraid.
Korzhenko continues to use you
to deflect his own failures.
In the party. you are now seen as a loser
because you failed to protect
the interests of the nation.
I was nothing but loyal to him.
And this is how he treats me.
And I have not gotten to the worst part.
Your wife is under threat.
That can't be.
[guard. in English] Hey! Let's go.
Keep it moving.
[Irina clears throat]
[in Russian] Her attempts
to ensure your release
have angered the president.
She will publicly denounce you.
She has no choice.
[guard. in English] All right. everybody.
That's your time. Back to your habs.
[ominous music playing]
Come on. Let's go. Come on.
[Palmer] More medical supplies.
[sighs]
[sighing]
Need to see him.
Not really a good time.
Tell him it's urgent.
[Dev sighs]
Did another raid.
Almost cleaned them out.
especially medical supplies.
Food is still an issue though.
They still have enough
to keep holding out.
I know.
[sighs]
We've been conducting
hit-and-run campaigns now for months.
and they haven't budged an inch.
We can't go on like this much longer.
Something has gotta change.
Believe it or not. I completely agree
with your assessment.
And I have an idea
of how to make it happen.
Well. don't leave me in suspense.
It's risky.
But we don't have a choice.
The future of this base.
the future of this planet
and everybody on it
now hangs in the balance.
So what exactly do you have in mind?
We've come to the conclusion that
the Kosmos-1 disaster
was a direct result
of rushed timeline to land on Titan.
Their trajectory was correct.
but Titan's atmosphere
density calculations were off.
Everything was moving so fast.
no one stopped to realize the atmospheric
density at altitude had diminished
since Titan had just come out
from Saturn's shadow.
That's why they came in too shallow.
[Aleida] We're sending up
new trajectory calcs.
but there's still a lot of uncertainty
in our density estimates.
Take a look at the risk analysis and. uh.
let us know what you think.
[sighs] That was close.
For a minute there.
I thought she was gonna tell us
we came all this way for nothing.
[Walt] Stu. start running numbers
for a burn to slingshot us around Saturn
- and return us to Mars.
- Wait. what?
You're pulling the plug now?
Kuragin rushed into a mission plan
before everything was ready.
And guess what?
The exact same thing happened to us.
This whole mission has suffered
from what NASA used to call "go fever."
When everyone convinces themselves
they're not seeing
the problems they're seeing
because everyone wants to say "go"
and no one wants to say "stop."
Well. I am saying stop.
Let me tell you something.
NASA didn't lose the moon to the Russians
because they were infected with go fever.
It was because they lost
their goddamn balls.
[scoffs]
When the moment came
on Apollo 10 to break the rules
and do the gutsy thing.
the dangerous thing.
my dad chickened out.
And you know what?
He regretted that decision
until the day he died.
So let's just take a minute
and think about this before we decide.
We are not making a decision here.
I am.
If there's one thing everyone knew
about your dad.
it's that when he was
in command of a mission.
he didn't stop and take a vote
before giving an order.
I'm in command here. You're not.
And I've decided to abort.
That's it.
[tense music playing]
Get me those numbers and I'll inform
Mars Control we're going home.
[typing]
I've decided the best move is
to abort the mission
and come back to Mars on a minimum energy.
gravity-assisted trajectory.
We gave it our best shot and we
should all be proud of how close we came.
Sojourner out.
Okay. people. You heard him.
Let's bring this bird back home.
They're coming back?
That's really too bad.
I know a lot of people round here
were looking forward to that landing.
Yeah. I was one of them.
Anyway. I. uh…
I-I came to ask you a favor.
Could we…
[sighs]
Why do I not like the sound of this?
I'm just asking.
I'm not saying we've decided to do it.
Oh. that's nice.
You haven't decided that you're actually
in charge of spaceflight operations.
Yet.
Uh. yeah. well. you let me know
when you're ready to take over MOCC
and begin directing air traffic
over the surface.
launching maintenance missions
to Kuznetsov Station.
keeping track of communications
and weather satellites and…
What else am I forgetting?
Oh. yeah.
Conducting flight operations
for the Titan mission.
Which is about 1.2 billion kilometers away
and approaching Saturn
at 40.000 kilometers per hour.
Aleida. come on.
All I need is a. "Yes. it's possible"
or. "No. it's not."
Because spaceflight's
that simple. isn't it?
[Miles sighs]
Just a yes or a no.
Aleida. please.
Look. now that Sojourner is…
[inhales sharply]
…coming back. I might be able to free up
the transport we had on standby.
But that's only if I can get
the other one out of maintenance.
- Okay?
- Thank you.
I'm not making any promises.
But I'll see what I can do.
I take it you've seen
the posters demanding they go home.
Hard to miss 'em.
They put one on my hab door.
Off the record. what do you think?
I think that everyone
was caught off guard by the coup.
That's what it was. Miles.
- But that's not...
- Don't hide from it.
But the people up here. they trust you.
So for the first couple of months. you had
the support of almost the entire base.
People were cheering you on.
celebrating you.
How you guys were fighting the tyranny
of automation for an independent Mars.
But now?
Six months in?
Food's being rationed.
money system's breaking down.
maintenance issues are piling up.
Reality has set in.
And this is when you find out
who your real friends are.
[scoffs] Yeah.
And the answer to your next question is
no. I'm not your friend. Miles.
But I'm not your enemy either. hmm?
I'm just the dumb schmuck
who has to wear the headset.
[chuckles]
- Okay.
I'd say. "Come back anytime."
but I really hope you don't.
- [laughs]
- [door closes]
[in Russian] Hello.
My name is Natalya Polivanova
and today I am talking to you…
the Soviet people.
I felt it important for
the public to know the truth.
My husband.
Governor Leonid Polivanov.
is the one to blame for
everything that has happened on Mars.
[tender music playing]
I watched him…
ignore the problems
until it was too late.
[speaking Russian]
[continues speaking Russian]
[Lenya] Those bastards…
Everything I have done for them. for him.
and he parades my Tasha
in front of the world.
forcing her to say those vile things.
It is terrible. you are right.
And under such pressure she
was still able to send me…
[sighs] Please. the people you know
in the intelligence service.
the ones sending you information.
Can they do anything to help her?
No. She is so closely watched
it would only make things worse.
But you're right.
something must be done about Korzhenko.
He is acting like a wild dog backed
into a corner. capable of anything.
He might just destroy
the nation to save his own skin.
Then what can be done?
He's never been weaker in the party.
The entire economy is
on the verge of collapse
and with the possibility of Mars
gaining independence during his tenure.
there is concern it could
stoke independence movements
in parts of the Soviet empire.
Why do you think he's trying to blame you?
Because he knows people will blame him.
Some people in the party. like Bolkonski.
are tired of his pseudo Stalinism.
They want someone younger. fresher.
Someone who can usher our
nation into the 21st century…
someone like you.
Are you out of your mind?
I am being held captive on another planet.
The people see what you have
sacrificed for your nation.
They believe in you.
Comrade Morozova. I'm afraid
this confinement has cost you your mind.
I have been through much worse.
Korzhenko will only be able to
hold onto power another month at most.
now that the oligarchs
have turned against him.
It's only a matter of time.
[in English]
So my contact at base operations
has arranged for the security system
to undergo a routine maintenance update
just before you enter the access points.
So you should be able to get in and out
without Boyd or
anybody else being the wiser.
- Well. it's… [sighs]
- It's what?
- [stammers] Well…
- It's a big swing?
- Yeah.
- Yeah. it is.
This is where we are in this game.
We're behind. time is running out.
We have to do something
to change this whole thing
or they're gonna destroy any
hope of a tomorrow up here.
These people. they are convinced
that what they're doing is right.
And they are stubborn as ever.
They're willing to put their lives on
the line for something utterly foolish.
Yeah.
We have to make them see the reality.
There is no way that they can win.
Let me know when you're ready to execute.
[door opens. closes]
[phone buzzing]
[grunts]
- Uh. yeah?
- [Lily] Are you asleep?
No. No. Why would I be asleep?
It's only. uh.
three o'clock in the morning.
[Lily] Well. do you know
what day it is today?
It's your birthday. Alex Baldwin.
- I. uh… I guess that's right. Yeah.
- [Lily laughs] Happy birthday.
[chuckles]
[Lily] You ready for your present?
Uh. now?
[Lily] You have other plans?
No. No. No.
[Lily] Well. then meet me in the dome.
It… [stammers] Isn't it locked?
[Lily] Just be there.
- Yeah. Okay. Uh…
- [call ends]
["Let's Go Surfing" playing]
[exhales deeply]
[sniffs]
[breathing heavily]
No. Yeah. you…
[sighs] Okay.
[chuckles]
[door buzzes. opens]
[leaves rustling]
- Hi.
Happy birthday.
- Thank you.
- [laughs]
[chuckles]
So. how do you like your present so far?
I think…
that it's beautiful.
[chuckles]
Um. I'll be right back.
- Okay.
- Okay?
[exhales deeply]
[mumbling] Just… Okay. All right.
[leaves rustling]
[Gulsora whispers] I'm not supposed
- to go to him.
- Hello?
- ["Starships" playing on speaker]
- Shh. [whispering indistinctly]
[leaves rustling]
Gu… Uh. Gulsora. Auggie.
I… uh… I… Uh. what are you guys…
Wait. w-what are you guys doing? I didn't…
[stammers] I didn't know you'd be here.
Uh… [groans] Okay. All right.
♪ Let's go to the beach-each
Let's go get away ♪
- It's your birthday after all.
- [laughing] What?
♪ Have a drink. clink
Found the Bud Light ♪
♪ Bad bitches like me… ♪
[laughs] What?
♪ The Patrón. own. let's go get it on ♪
- ♪ The zone. own. yes I'm in the zone ♪
- [laughs] What?
♪ Is it two. three? ♪
Oh. my God. There's more. [laughs] Wow.
♪ I'm on the floor. floor ♪
- Hey!
- ♪ I love to dance ♪
♪ So give me more. more ♪
- ♪ Till I can't stand ♪
- [laughs] What?
- ♪ Starships were meant to fly ♪
- [Alex exclaims]
- [laughs]
- [Lily laughs]
♪ …and touch the sky ♪
♪ Can't stop 'cause we're so high ♪
♪ Let's do this one more time. oh ♪
♪ Starships were meant… ♪
[laughs] You didn't think we were on
fertilizer duty that whole time.
- did you?
- Yeah. but this is… It's not. uh.
- what I expected. that's for sure.
- ♪ …do this one more time ♪
♪ Can't stop
We're higher than a mother**** ♪
[music continues]
♪ We're higher than a mother**** ♪
♪ Get on the floor. floor
Like it's your last chance ♪
[cheering]
♪ Then here I am ♪
♪ Starships were meant to fly ♪
♪ Hands up and touch... ♪
[crashing]
[music stops]
- [crashing]
- [rumbling]
[ominous music playing]
[Dimitri] One dead.
Seven injured.
Two critically.
[stammers. sighs]
[sniffs]
Six domes were a total loss. obviously.
Also there were five emergency ration
storage rooms directly beneath one dome…
and they were
completely destroyed when it collapsed.
[Miles] When. uh… [sighs]
When can we estimate the impact
of losing all those domes
and the rations on our food supply?
Subtracting rations lost
from projected dome harvests
gives us…
two weeks.
Two weeks.
How the fuck did they pull this off?
We just increased security.
Someone used the admin password
to take the security system offline.
Who has the admin password
to the security system?
Quite a few people.
but we know who was behind this.
Enough is enough.
We have to go after this traitor.
Let me take some weapons.
We-We'll fight our way in there and we'll
take care of this shit once and for all.
Then what? You think going to battle with
Dev and Palmer is gonna solve anything?
[sighs] We can't let them keep
fucking with us like this.
No. No more bloodshed.
There's more. Um…
Since the domes were attacked.
the. uh. petition to go back
to Earth is just growing.
- Fast.
- [scoffs] Jesus.
Turns out people aren't
thrilled by the idea of starving.
I signed it.
With Sojourner about to turn back around…
I've got kids.
I can't…
I just can't anymore.
I'm sorry.
Maybe it's time to just face facts here.
We did our best. We made our point.
No fucking way.
Not after everything we've been through.
We can't just stop.
Then what. Miles?
We're out of options here.
[sighs]
We followed your instructions
to the letter.
It was three in the morning.
The doors were locked.
Everything was thought through.
It was wrong place wrong time.
They snuck in.
Must have had
a separate access code somehow.
Bunch of dumb kids.
Was Alex there?
I don't know. I'm sorry.
But. um…
there was a young woman.
She didn't make it.
I just heard what happened.
I'm so sorry.
I know you two were close.
I wish you could be spared from
going through things like this. [sighs]
But you have to stay strong. sweetie.
Looks like I'll be heading home soon.
I love you.
Always.
[suspenseful music playing]
Round the horn.
Go-no-go on the burn for home.
Propulsion?
[Elena] Plasma engine
controls armed and synced.
RF generator output nominal.
Helicon and ICH couplers online. Go!
- Environmental systems?
- [Oleg] Same as it's been
for the last five months. Go.
- Guidance?
- [Oleg] Inertial nav alignment confirmed.
Doppler return agrees. Go!
Flight dynamics?
Burn sequence loaded.
Checksum matches. We're a go!
[Walt] Pilot?
Manual backup flight systems
self-test shows free and correct. Go!
All right. That's a go.
Kelly. Stu. she's all yours.
- Take us back to Mars.
- [Kelly] Nulling manual controls.
Autosequence standing by.
Burn parameters good. Proceed.
Injectors armed. Burn sequence initiated.
In six. five. four. three.
two. one. execute.
[alarm blaring]
We have a failure to ignite.
Why? What happened?
[Oleg] Checking ICH power levels.
Autosequence is still active.
but it's late for some reason.
Yeah. we don't have time for late.
Burn window for Mars closes in 20 seconds.
Somehow the burn clock's still running.
Injectors. all offline.
- [rhythmic beeping]
- [Oleg] Computer shows nominal status.
[Elena]
Confirming negative propellant feed.
[Kelly] RF systems nominal.
- [rapid beeping]
- [Stu] Shit.
- We missed the window.
- [Walt] Damn it.
Can we. uh. fire manually
and run a longer burn to compensate?
Not with the props we have.
We gotta do something. Maybe we can. uh...
- [rumbling]
- What the hell was that?
Engines are firing.
- Burn initiated.
- [Walt] What?
- How?
- [Stu] This isn't making sense.
Elena. check engine function.
[stammers] Everything is in the green.
Then abort the burn.
Shut down the RF feeds.
Hard shutdown would quench the chamber.
- She might not start back up again.
- Where is this taking us?
[beeps]
[Oleg] We are fucked.
How fucked?
We're on track for Titan entry.
That is not possible. I uploaded the Mars
return sequence and checked it myself.
Maybe there was a
failure in the processor.
- Corrupt handle in the...
- Guidance computer
is running the wrong burn.
- [Walt] What?
- Yeah.
it's the one we got from Ms. Rosales.
No. Th-Th-That can't be.
I know that I loaded the correct. uh…
[whirs]
Engine shutdown.
[typing]
[chimes]
We're inbound for Titan.
[stammers. sighs] Maybe there's. uh…
Is there a way we can
use Titan as the slingshot.
get enough acceleration to
take another shot around Saturn?
[Elena] No. we're too low on propellant.
Elena. do we have enough props left
to execute our original landing plan?
Uh. yeah. Barely.
Then we should go for landing.
No. That can't happen. We are going home.
It's too late. Walt. We have no choice.
[Oleg] She is right.
Only way we are going to
get enough props to burn
for home is to land
on Titan and make some.
External hull temperatures
are beginning to rise.
We're picking up drag
from Titan's atmosphere.
We better configure for
an aerobrake and get this party started.
Walt?
[breathing heavily] Uh…
[Kelly] Walt?
Uh… Um… [sighs]
Switching manual control to my station.
- [Stu] You have the ship.
- Wait. I didn't authorize that.
I'm taking us in. Stu. load the aerobrake
sequence to enter Titan orbit.
but do not engage the autopilot.
Arming pyros for
external fuel tank engine function.
Pitching up to aerobrake attitude.
No. No. no. no. I-I countermand that.
A landing is too dangerous.
Stu. take the controls!
Negative. boss. She's right.
We're committed.
Elena. keep an eye on
the heat shield temps.
Call it every hundred kelvins.
And fire up ground navigation and be ready
to give me updates on our landing site.
On it.
You better know what you're doing.
[chattering]
- How you doing?
- Really great.
I always wanted to know
what it felt like to fail completely
and utterly in front of the entire world.
- Miles…
- No. it's cool.
You should try it sometime.
You remember what you said
to me after Sarah was born?
She was just a day old.
and they didn't know what was wrong.
That it's okay to be afraid.
Maybe you should take your own advice.
Miles. you better come to MOCC.
It's Sojourner.
Come on.
[tense music playing]
[rumbling]
I hate that.
Heat shield leading edge temp
now 2800 kelvin.
Remember. Baldwin.
that shield starts to melt at 33.
We still gotta get our velocity below
2.6 kilometers per second or we'll skip.
Decel now 21 meters per second squared.
[Walt] Kelly?
Kelly. you got this or not?
I don't think you need me
answering pointless questions right now.
[Elena] We're coming in too shallow.
Hang on. I'm gonna bring us in steeper.
The drag should slow us down more.
Okay.
Okay. just stay cool.
It's just like night landings
back on the Connie.
What's going on?
Sojourner…
They're going for it.
They're trying to enter
Titan's atmosphere now.
If they don't slow down enough.
they'll skip off Titan just like Kosmos-1.
But if they melt their heat shield.
that's also gonna mean a real bad day.
It's in their hands at this point.
[Kelly] Mars control.
velocity's coming down.
but we're still seven
kilometers per second over target.
[Walt] Altitude 290 kilometers.
[Stu] DAP now running P-three-twenty.
- [Walt] A-D-I on inertial.
- We need to broadcast this to the base.
You really want everyone to hear this?
Why not?
[Walt] Altitude 270. Speed 9.2.
Because it might not have a happy ending.
But it might. This is a Mars mission.
It was built here.
It was planned here. It was crewed here.
They deserve to know what's happening.
[Walt] Now at 255 kilometers.
Speed at nine klick-secs.
Yeah.
[Kelly] Engaging aerosurface control.
Starter fuel tanks pressurized.
[Oleg] Cross-feed switches closed.
[Elena] I'm seeing more ionization.
Expect LOS soon.
Decel now 31 meters per second squared.
- [rapid beeping]
- Heat shield's at 3500 kelvin.
[Kelly]
Okay. let's switch over flight controls.
[Oleg]
Control switch over in three. two. one.
[Elena] Hull temperature is still rising.
[Oleg] Aerosurface hydraulics pressurized.
[Kelly] Holding up at G 191.7. Speed 8.5.
Really hard to hold her.
- [Oleg] Hydraulic pressure decreasing.
- [Kelly] Spar cap 131 at 92%.
[Stu] Ground radar active.
[Oleg] O-A-T 94 Kelvin.
[Walt] Keep your eyes on the redline.
- [rapid beeping]
- [rumbling]
- You're pushing it too far!
- [Elena] Redline exceeded.
Heat shields are starting to fail!
[Oleg] Structural tension 20% above limit.
[Elena] Leading edge temp still climbing…
Heat shields exceeding the limit.
- [Oleg] Hydraulic temp reading is...
- [static]
[controller 1] LOS. Sojourner blackout.
[controller 2] No signal on X-band.
[taps key]
[controller 1] Scanning.
[controller 1]
Switching HG-3 to search mode.
[controller 2]
Have we gotten any seeking data?
[controller 1] Negative.
[static]
[typing]
[controller 2] Still no signal.
[computers beeping. whirring]
[static continues]
[whirring intensifies]
There. That frequency.
[crackling loudly]
[crackling continues]
[Kelly. muffled] Sojour… to Happy Valley…
We have safely entered Titan's atmosphere.
[uplifting music playing]
[cheering]
[cheering continues]
[laughing]
[cheering]
[Kelly] Landing target acquired.
[ethereal music playing]
[laughing]
Three.
two.
one.
[gasps]
[sighs]
[chuckles]
[laughing]